# INFO-250-Final-Project
Allen's Final Project for INFO 250 - Information Visualization, making a variety of visualizations using a dataset on college majors and their graduates to apply information visualization concepts learned throughout the course

  One of the biggest decisions college students have to make is picking which major program they will study. There are many different factors that come into play in making this decision, and among them are how employable graduates of that major are, how much money graduates earn, and the gender ratios of those departments. All of these are covered for 173 different college majors in this dataset here https://www.kaggle.com/tunguz/college-majors. After doing some exploratory analysis and cleaning, I have created a variety of different visualizations of this data, which are posted below in this report, and also published to this GitHub repository: https://github.com/allencai1015/INFO-250-Final-Project. 
  As a STEM student myself, I was most interested in looking at STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Medicine) majors, seeing how the different categories compared to each other, and within each category, what the most popular majors are, and what the highest earning majors were. I also took a look at the ratio of men to women in each of the majors. STEM in general is very popular, since it is perceived by society to be a very safe bet as a field of study that can earn you a high, stable income. It also stereotypically has very imbalanced gender ratios across departments, with fields like engineering and computer science being notoriously male dominated and fields like nursing extremely female dominated. However, are these stereotypes really true? Are there some STEM degrees still unlikely to land you a good job that’s relevant to what you studied in school? And do all STEM majors have gender imbalance issues, or are some more balanced than others? These are also questions I tried to answer with my visualizations.
  All of the data I focused on was contained in the recent-grads.csv file. This dataset is on the older side, and was created by the US Census as part of their American Community Survey 2010-2012 Public Use Microdata Series. Nonetheless, I believe it is still worth exploring, since the economy is still comparable to how it was 10 years ago, and the dataset contains plenty of interesting data to visualize, and boasts extremely good reviews on Kaggle, with a 10 out of 10 usability score. 
	The dataset’s features include a ranking of all popular majors at the time, the names of the major, greater categories that each major falls under, counts of how many men, women, and both combined graduated with the major, and the percentage share of each major that women made up. It also has data on the employment status of these recent graduates, including whether they found a full time or part time job, whether those jobs required a college degree or were low wage service jobs, and the 25th percentile, median, and 75th percentile of earnings. Finally, it also gives a count of the unemployed graduates for each major, and the overall unemployment rate. Out of these features, only the names and categories of majors are categorical, and all of the other features are continuous and numerical. Most of them are integer counts, since you can’t have fractional people, with the exception of percentages like “ShareWomen” and “Unemployment_rate”. 

Research Questions
1. Which category of STEM has the highest earning graduates?
2. What are the highest earning majors within each category?
3. Are there any STEM majors that earn significantly more or less than the other majors within their category (outliers)? If so, what are those majors?
4. For each of the categories of STEM, what are the most popular majors, and how employable are the graduates from those programs?
5. Are there any STEM majors at all that suffer from low employability, or do they hold up to society’s perception of them as safe bets for fields of study?
6. Are the stereotypes of engineering and computer science being male dominated and health and life sciences being female dominated true?
7. Are there any majors within any category that have a male to female ratio that is closer to a balanced 50/50 than the others?


